- I was born here
and people tease me that
I sometimes still refer
to this as my house.
- Steve Jobs is on the kitchen counter.
- I know.
- Steve Jobs is staring at you
every time you cook.
- My mom knew Steve well
because she wrote some of the first grants
to bring the Mac into schools.
And so my mom was one of the
first digital programs in a
journalism program at school.
And so my mom used to like
show up at the house, knock,
knock, knock and be like,
I need some more Macs.
- Anne Wojcicki. Bay area
native, cycling enthusiast,
co-creator of the
Breakthrough Prize in science
and co-founder of the
personal genetics company 23andMe.
23andMe inspired millions of people
to spit in tubes in exchange
for a glimpse at their genetic code.
- So you now have the first
FDA approved consumer
genetic test.
- What you might call
Anne Wojcicki, a pioneer.
- We're going to
fundamentally change things.
It was a biotech darling
at one point worth nearly
$6 billion
before it all collapsed
and Wojcicki was forced to resign in order
to win it back from the outside.
- From that moment, it
was like a little bit
of a total reckoning,
like, what am I going to do?
What she did was buy the
company for $305 million in cash,
restructure it as a nonprofit,
and retake the title of CEO.
Should we call it a
comeback or not just yet?
- It's an evolution. Probably
more than the comeback.
I joined her for a
fast-paced two day romp
through the hills around
Stanford's campus, where she
talked to me about winning her
job back, co-parenting
with Google co-founder Sergey
Brin, losing her sister Susan,
former CEO of YouTube,
and the day her own
board turned against her,
- Those people were friends of hers.
And how could they have done that?
- The shock will never wear off.
All while making me work for it.
- Is this supposed to make my
blood pressure go up or down?
- Down. It's going to go down.
And my camera crew, too.
Now that she's back at the helm,
Wojcicki is looking
forward to better days.
- I definitely have a master's
in hard things right now.
So when I write the PhD
thesis, I'll share it with you, okay?
- Okay, so we're biking.
- We're biking, we're biking.
- So what's your biking routine?
- Okay, so my biking routine,
I bike every day because it's freedom.
So I always bike in the
morning, I show up in the office
and I'm happy and I bike home
and then I can kind of process everything
that happened in the office that day.
So nobody ever, like when it's raining out
and I can't bike, people know it's a
different personality.
- They don't want to talk to you.
- I'm just going to be more cranky.
As kids we rode all around and
we used to like hang out
and play in all these flowers.
We played in all of this.
Now we're going to Kite Hill.
So you might be surprised
to learn that this is
where we used to fly kites.
- Wojcicki grew up in
an illustrious family.
Her father Stanley, chair
of the physics department at
Stanford. Her sister Janet,
a doctor and professor.
Susan, who's credited
with persuading Google to buy
YouTube, and the matriarch,
Esther. Celebrated high school
teacher, friend of Steve Jobs
and self-styled parenting expert. Wojcicki
studied biology at Yale, then
took a job on Wall Street
before returning to California.
That's when she met her future
husband, Sergey Brin, one
of the Stanford PhD students working out
of her sister Susan's garage
on something called search.
Specifically, Google.
Brin gave 23andMe a loan,
later repaid when Google
took a stake in the company.
The couple divorced in 2015,
but remain on good terms.
- We can put our bikes down
and then we can look around.
- How about that?
- Yes.
You were on the front lines
of Google obviously.
Did that empower you
or did that sort of give you
like a motivation to push through?
- Yeah, I think the thing
that I learned from them
and from like frankly
like this whole culture is
that it's okay to try
and it's okay to fail.
Like the main thing is like
the continuous pursuit of
what you're interested in.
- You buy the company
back with your own money.
- Yes, thank God. Yeah.
- Why come back?
- Oh, why come back?
- Why not start something new?
- I love it. I love what we do.
At the end of the day I was
like, okay, if I don't buy it,
I'm probably in my head
always regretting it.
- How'd it feel to write that
check? That's a big check.
- I mean, in some ways it's
like a privilege that I can.
23andme I think is so incredibly valuable
and it's now a gift to society.
And so this should be the open science
platform for the world.
Like to make discoveries about
like the foundations of life,
make discoveries about, you know,
what is health, about diseases,
Alzheimer's, like everything.
- The business model seemed
reasonable. On one side,
a consumer product that was
making waves in pop culture.
See there's a new company
called 23andMe, and
because of them, 23 people
now say their father is me.
On the other, a treasure trove of DNA data
that could theoretically be
used to develop treatments
to deadly diseases.
Any drugs or diseases in particular
that you are particularly we working on
excited about? We're a whole rate
- Oncology, immunology, neurology,
cardiovascular, metabolic disease.
So this is major breakthrough
stuff you're doing.
- The company went public
in 2021 via a richer
Branson back deal.
The stock boomed and Wojcicki
became a self-made billionaire.
She and Brin had also been
buying up commercial real estate
in nearby Los Altos,
a passion project which
eventually took over.
- It's a little bit like
real life monopoly like you,
you get and buy a building
and then you can find
amazing business leaders
and you can support them.
- Everything seemed to be coming up. Anne,
- Oh
- You think she owned the place?
But the newly public company
was about to run into trouble
after peaking at a market
cap of $5.7 billion,
the stock tanked 23
and me wasn't selling enough
kits to keep Wall Street happy.
Then hackers got a hold of
data from 6.9 million 23
and me profiles, which certainly
didn't help suddenly 23
and Me was out of cash.
Looking back, if you see
a blind spot, what was it?
- I think there's like a number
of things that we did wrong
and I think first and foremost,
you know, there's aspects
that are like totally unsexy
but are really important
like corporate structure.
I'd go and meet with an investor
and they would say like,
what's your identity?
Are you a consumer company?
Are you a diagnostic company?
Are you a therapeutics company?
And we'd say like, oh, we're all of them.
And like, that's amazing.
And at that stage we were
at, it was too complex.
- On March 23rd, 2025, the
company filed for bankruptcy.
I headed to New York to meet up
with veteran journalist Kristin V. Brown,
to find out more about what happened
to the once promising biotech company.
You've been covering Anne
Wojcicki for a long time.
What's your impression of
her as a person and as a CEO?
- There's kind of a cult
of personality around her
because she's so nice
and so enthusiastic about what she does.
I mean, nobody believes in the power
of the genome more than Anne Wojcicki.
- What was the promise of DNA
when 23andMe first started
and what changed?
- So what changed is not that 23andMe
had a bad idea.
At the time, it was a great idea.
- In 2003, scientists finished the first
map of the human genome.
Francis Collins, the
leader of the project,
said we would have a DNA based
designer drug for Alzheimer's
and cancer by 2020.
- With this profound new knowledge.
Humankind is on the verge
of gaining immense new power to heal
- In the eighties and nineties
they were having all these breakthroughs
where they were finding single
genes for diseases, right?
Like Huntington's disease.
We thought that most
diseases would be like that.
That there would be one gene for diabetes,
that there would be one gene
that made you more at risk for,
you know, lung cancer.
But it's not like that.
There are many, many,
many genes involved in diabetes.
And the fact is
that biology is not only still pretty
mysterious to us, right?
We don't know a lot.
- Hmm. What is 23andMe's
biggest challenge in your opinion?
- I think 23andMe's biggest
challenge that most people
who want to take a DNA test kit have
already, have already done it.
And you know, how do you grow if people
fundamentally don't want your product?
- Welcome to my, my crazy home.
- This is the house you grew up in.
- It is.
- I think every square inch
of wall has a picture on it.
- It's very much a history of our lives.
So that's little me,
but like more importantly,
this is little me.
- Okay.
- And so that's Susan, that's Janet
and that's my grandmother Rose.
And that's me. You know,
Susan and Janet dominated
and so I had that luxury a
little bit of like sitting back
and watching and just
like seeing what they did
and like what mistakes they made.
And so like even at my first job,
like I remember thinking like
my first year is not about
speaking, it's about observing.
Hmm. And I've always kind
of been that way is like,
I want to understand the
situation before I jump in.
- A year ago, almost exactly, the company
filed for bankruptcy.
Tell me about that day and that
decision.
- I mean it's, it's remarkable
to think it was almost a
year ago. I had resigned so
that I could be part of
the bidding process, knowing
that there was a likely chapter 11 filing.
You know, I think some of
the things that surprised me,
like I was, you know, suddenly out.
I had no, none of my email
from 20 years or 19 years.
My calendar, like everything,
like my life, it was just
so personal and like
suddenly I didn't have it.
You know, it's like a death.
Like what do you do the
day after someone dies?
Like you kind of look at everything,
like you look at the clouds
and you look at the sky and,
and it's different and
everything is a different shade.
- Around the same time her
company was falling apart, Wojcicki
and her family suffered three real deaths.
Her father passed away at age 86.
Susan, who never smoked,
died at 56 of lung cancer.
And Susan's 19-year-old son
Marco passed away from an
accidental overdose.
Susan was fighting cancer.
While you were fighting for your company,
did you talk to her about it?
- Yeah, I mean like even when,
when she was in her last
month of life, she was like,
well like send me your 10 Q
and I'll give you feedback.
She was a big supporter and
she was always trying to help.
She was like always the big sister.
- In 2024, your board
resigned all at once.
The board put out a statement
after of work, we have yet
to receive a fully financed,
fully diligent, actionable proposal
that is in the best
interests of shareholders.
It is also clear that we differ
on the strategic direction
for the company going forward.
Because of that and your
concentrated voting power,
we resign from the board.
Now some of these people
are people who've sung your
praises for decades.
Investors like Roelof Botha,
Patrick Chung, Neal Mohan,
who took over as CEO when Susan left.
What conversations did you have with them
and how did that feel?
- I mean, it was a really complicated time
because we'd set up a special committee.
I was still CEO,
but it was almost like the
special committee took over to,
to take on major decisions.
So it was a surprise for me
when they were saying, you know,
like, oh, there's, we have a disagreement
where I was like, like what?
Like, like what? What
were we disagreeing about?
I was working incredibly
hard to put together a bid.
It was hard because Susan died August 9th
and the board resigned a few weeks later.
- Have you talked to any of them since?
- I've engaged with a couple.
- So who's in your burn book
and who's, who's, who stuck with you?
- I think they will stay
anonymous in my, in my burn book.
People have their own motivations.
People have their own reasons why.
And it was a really complicated situation.
And I should emphasize I was
one of the largest shareholders
and I was going to do whatever I could
to be in the best interest of
the mission and shareholders.
It was an unbelievable surprise to me.
- Bloomberg reached out to the
board members who resigned,
all but one declined to
comment or didn't respond.
Patrick Chung, one of the
earliest investors in 23andMe
said, "it became necessary
to reorganize 23andMe
and cut some programs,"
but that the company's mission
"remains fully alive" under
Wojcicki's leadership.
I want to talk about the data
breach that exposed the data
of millions of users that
wasn't stored securely.
When you look back on that,
what do you think went wrong?
How did you, or how did
the team let that happen?
- I've never called it a data breach
because it wasn't actually
a breach of our systems.
Usernames and passwords by other companies
that had been breached were
released into the dark web.
And what we found is there was 13
or 14,000 of those that matched in
23andMe. And you know,
we elected to notify,
you know, obviously the
13, 14,000 individuals,
but also everyone that they
were genetically connected to
and, and that's how the
numbers became so large. Data
and security are top priorities
and we always take that really seriously.
We always have. And you learn
from, you learn every day.
And the most important thing is
to be vigilant and stay on top of it.
- The highly publicized sale,
stoked fears about privacy.
Attorneys general told
consumers to delete their data
and Congress called Wojcicki to testify.
- Failing to safeguard Americans'
data from these hostile
actors would not only be a
critical violation of privacy,
but also a national security catastrophe.
- Drugmaker Regeneron initially
won the auction for most
of 23andMe's assets,
but Wojcicki persuaded the bankruptcy
court to reopen the case.
Part of her argument was that
the data would remain with
23andMe instead of being
sold to Big Pharma.
And in the end she won.
So ultimately your offer was
accepted $305 million.
- It was. On round two.
Let's not forget round two
because that was, there
was real work, girl.
- Did you celebrate or was
it not that kind of a day?
- The day that I won is surreal.
Regeneron put out tons of
press around how they won.
They were out here meeting with my team,
you know, they were in it to win it.
And so reopening the auction was a battle.
And part of what Regeneron
negotiated for was the last look,
meaning that they had the
ability to give the last bid.
And I was devastated, like
totally flat out devastated
because I didn't have, you know,
Regeneron has 16 billion
on their balance sheet.
Like I can't compete.
And so I had to have peace with
like, I'm going to lose it.
And I was like, but at least I'm going to,
I'm going to go down fighting.
I'm not going to just,
you know, hand it over.
And so that morning I walked
in was like, you know,
sat down, you know, it's like, you know,
a giant table of lawyers.
It's like a really expensive table.
And you know, Regeneron
said they declined to bid
and I couldn't stop screaming.
I was like screaming, jumping
up and down. I was crying.
I was like raw emotion.
That's like all, it was like,
I was like out of control.
It was like out of body experience.
- What's the hardest thing
about being a founder
after a very public stumble.
- You know, it's hard
because you want to win
and you want to be successful.
And for me,
success was not just
about the monetary side,
but it was also the success of humanity
and helping millions
and millions of people
benefit from their genome.
And you know, we're at 13 million today,
which is the world's largest, you know,
recontactable data set.
But to do the things that we want to do,
particularly in an AI world,
you want hundreds of millions
to really realize the dream
of understanding the code
of life and having
personalized prevention.
You know, I look at the MAHA movement,
I look at everyone here
like we're suffering
with chronic disease, like we're suffering
with all these different issues.
Susan had lung cancer, like
how can I understand our health?
And to understand it, you need data
and you need data that's
collected in the right way
and you need engaging with people.
- Wojcicki took me to the food court
she started, where we talked about her
philosophy around health.
- All right, welcome
to State Street Market.
- Love it. So you built this place.
- We built this place. What do you
want? You want to get a mango lassi?
- Ooh yeah, that sounds good.
- Let's get mango lassis.
- You know, you've always
been really into preventative
health and you've been really critical
of the healthcare system.
Do you think the system is broken?
- There's so much money
off the dysfunction
that you can never change from within.
I think you have to start outside.
And what makes me so happy
now is it everything
23andMe did was so hard
in those early days.
Like there wasn't even online consent.
The idea of having a patient come
and get, you know,
information on their own was
like radical.
So the fact that there's like,
there's us, there's Hims,
there's Ro, there's Midi,
there's you know, Hello Heart.
I mean there's like an entire industry
that has made healthcare easier.
- What's your take on the MAHA movement?
Make America Healthy Again?
- Ooh.
My mom was like very early, you know,
teaching us about BHT and preservatives
and you never want to eat,
you know, red food coloring
and that it can create hyperactivity.
So one thing I realized also
with my mom is the first time
I asked for my medical record,
it came with this note across
the top that said, as all
of us in pediatrics know
this mom can be quite
uncontrollable at times.
My mom had a tragedy when she was little,
her little brother ate a bottle of aspirin
and they couldn't get
proper care and he died.
And so my mom always had
this mindset is like,
if you don't take care of yourself
and if you don't advocate
for yourself, nobody will.
And so like time
after time my mom, you know,
we'd have the experience
of like going to the doctor saying like,
oh there's this issue
or there's this problem
and not feeling heard.
And then we switch. Like
even I had this issue, I went
to the dentist and she
insisted on X-raying my mouth.
I was like, I don't want a X-ray.
So she kicked me out
of the chair and I left
and I had to go find a new dentist.
And the MAHA movement for
me is reflective of the fact
that people are hurting
and they don't feel heard
and they want to see change.
- I am a MAHA mom.
- Is that a correct statement by the way?
- About 41 percent of
Americans say they support
the MAHA movement,
which covers a wide range
of claims about food vaccines
and cell phone radiation,
often with little evidence
to support them.
But skepticism of the medical
establishment is growing.
And maybe that's an opening for
23andMe to find its
momentum again, this time
as a nonprofit. How does the
whole nonprofit thing work?
- 23andMe was always a
mission driven company.
We were always focused on impact.
How many people are
signing up to participate
and how many lives are we saving?
How many papers are we generating?
Is it being translated into
something that's meaningful
for society?
We're going to be
measured on questions like
that, no longer on like, did you
generate a bottom line for us?
And that's why we're growing
as a nonprofit is to say,
we're coming back, and we're, the mission
and the dream is still there.
We're going to get to a
hundred million people.
We're absolutely going to
learn the code of life.
We're absolutely going to define
what a personalized
prevention plan means for each
and individual person.
And we're going to eliminate
preventable deaths.
And I can achieve that as a
nonprofit the same way I could
achieve that as a for-profit.
- 23andMe'S model as a
nonprofit is to sell kits,
take donations,
and then use the data for
research both internally
and with external partners.
In the last year, it's contributed
to published research on
obesity drugs, cannabis,
and using AI to predict
conditions based on genes.
Billionaire Ron Conway
has committed to donate
to the new foundation.
It's a sign of one of
Wojcicki's superpowers.
She knows a lot of powerful
people with deep pockets
and people like her.
But there are downsides to
being entangled with the elite
Wojcicki's name,
along with Brin's, appears
in the investigation
of disgraced financier
Jeffrey Epstein,
whose assistant once ordered so many
23andMe test kits that the
company flagged his request
and canceled the order
when it was revealed they
were for use outside the US.
- Jeffrey Epstein was apparently
obsessed with genetics
and lacing the human race
with his DNA.
Ghislaine Maxwell
emailed Epstein about you
directly, saying "be very nice to her.
Not stupid. She's
interested in mapping DNA.
She is key smiley face."
Did you ever encounter Jeffrey Epstein?
Did he ever talk to you about DNA?
- We met him once and I don't
remember talking about DNA.
- I mean so many powerful
people including tech leaders,
almost all of them men,
got caught in his web.
How does this happen?
- I, I think that there
was a circle of like people
who like, hey, you meet this
person, you meet that person.
I'm going to this event,
I'm going to this conference
and you, you end up interacting.
- Was it on the island?
- So we knew, you know, we went
to the island once that was
reported and it was short,
but you know, he was, Jeffrey
Epstein was in the TED network
and other areas like he was
kind of in the circle,
but it was, it was pretty limited for us.
- Nobody likes to be asked
about Jeffrey Epstein,
but Wojcicki says she's an open book.
You're not scared to
talk about hard things
or things that other people
don't want to talk about.
Where does that come from?
- I have nothing to hide.
I've had like very public failures.
I've had very public divorce.
I've had really hard times.
You know, I always think
about like the people
who helped me along the way,
like what is it that I can do
that also helps other people?
And frankly when I talk
about it, it helps me.
- What's your relationship
like with Sergey now?
- Sergey's been a great co-parent for me.
You can't go through like the kind
of crazy life you have, we've had,
and like not
have a deep affection.
And I feel like, like we've
raised a couple really
amazing children.
- You had a third child on
your own with a sperm donor.
What went into that decision for you?
- Yeah, I, I mean I can't
help talking about it
and smiling a lot because
I feel every day like I'm
so lucky.
I really, I like, I didn't
think I could get pregnant
- At 45!
- I know at 45, a hundred percent.
I mean I think that's where I
look at like all these things,
like when you go into something
with low expectations, what happens?
But I went in saying
like, I'm not, I'm never,
it's never going to happen.
So like why am I even
like, I was like, I'm,
I'm doing it just to make sure
that I don't feel guilty
that I didn't try.
because if you don't try, you
can't. You have no chance.
- What's something people assume about
you but always get wrong.
- I tend to not worry about
what people are assuming,
but I know people definitely come to me
and they're like, oh you're very grounded.
I'm like, well why
would I not be grounded?
I was like, I live with my
sister, I have my children.
There's plenty of people
to try to keep me grounded.
- Another beautiful day.
- You're seeing
Wojcicki background headquarters.
- I ended my day with
Wojcicki, her sister Janet,
and her mother Esther in the
backyard of their family home
to reflect on the challenges
of the last two years
and finally settle the question of how
to pronounce their Polish surname.
I do want to start with a
lesson on pronunciation
because nobody gets it right.
- Ms. Anne Whoa-gee-key.
- Ms. Whoa-jo-ski.
Did I say it wrong?
- Uh, Ms. Whoa-jiskey.
It's Whoa-jiskey, right?
- And I thought I had it right
but then when you said it, I was like,
I don't say it quite
like that. So I say Wah-jit-ski.
- Yeah, that's fine.
- That's good.
- But you said woo.
- No, whoa. It's like whoa.
Like whoa, whoa.
- Like Whoa-just-ski.
- Jiss.
- It's like Whoa-jet-skiing.
- No it's not.
- Well I'm just trying to make it -
- There's no consensus in
this family. Let's just like -
- Okay.
Okay. And you're obviously used
to people saying it wrong
and spelling it wrong.
- Oh yeah. The minute they say anything
that sounds reasonable, I say yes.
- I'm curious what you both
think seeing Anne having gone
through this era of survival.
We talked about survival.
- I mean it's remarkable.
It's really, it's remarkable.
Like everything that
Anne has gone through,
- You know, I had a feeling
that she was going to be
just strong and resilient.
But I can tell you as
a mom I couldn't watch
because it was hard for me.
It is very reassuring for me
to see her on the other side.
And she has a great company.
- You know, when I got divorced
and it was hard, I remember I
had this therapist was like,
you have to do one thing a
day that makes you happy.
Mm. Like that's just for you.
And I've kind of lived by that.
We couldn't control Susan getting sick.
We couldn't control Marco dying.
Like I couldn't control
aspects of 23andMe.
And so the thing I can
control is like making myself
happy and optimistic.
- I interviewed Susan many
times and she was always so kind
and so generous with, with her
advice about how to be a mom
and how to have a big job
and that, yeah, you, you
could do that at the same time
and you could actually
be good at both things.
There are so few women in high profile,
powerful positions in tech.
Do you see that as another
part of this tragedy?
- Yes, a hundred percent.
- For sure.
I think every day,
like I wish I could get
Susan's perspective on the
world, you know?
And there's not tons
of female leaders in the tech space.
- We always thought she might
be the next CEO of Google.
- I know, I know. Look, Susan was amazing.
And what was fun for
us, like we'd be skiing
and you know, we all
like bring our different,
like you have all the kids
and there's this chaos
and Janet has her world like,
and Susan would be
like, I got to like deal
with these crazy things that
are happening on YouTube and,
and then she'd be there and she'd be like,
oh can you bring the diaper bag?
You know? I went to the
Oscars every year with Susan
and Susan was so funny because
she like didn't really care.
She was like, I'm just going to buy
like a dress at Macy's, like on sale.
But she kind of had that
perspective as like,
it's not like, it's not
that important for us.
Like no one's like watching us.
- Anne Wojcicki tried to recruit
Susan to 23andMe to no avail.
But she's had more success with Janet.
You now work with Anne.
- Yes. Yes.
- And I think you also live together.
- Yes. You know, it wasn't an ask,
it was like, you're
going to be on the board.
- Does she also let you
borrow her pants in exchange?
I mean, how does this work? Really?
- I had to quickly check
the outfit to see whether
that was mine or truly hers.
- Well that's one way to
stay aligned with your board.
It's too early to say whether
a nonprofit structure will
help Wojcicki achieve her ambitions.
23and Me still needs to
persuade a lot more people
to buy its tests.
But Wojcicki as one early
investor put it, has a willful
ignorance of constraints.
In Silicon Valley,
that's usually considered a good thing.
What are the chances she pulls this off?
- As a science reporter, I had
learned a long time ago to,
you know, never say never.
Right? Like we're learning
things all the time
and our conception of human
biology is constantly changing.
- So you haven't given up on
the dream it sounds like.
- Yeah. Enable each person
to have their own
personalized prevention path
and accelerate discoveries
broadly like in every
area. And we're going to do that.
- The dream is alive guys.
- It's alive.
- It's alive. Does anyone have a kite?
- She's my mother. Who's uncontrollable?
- The matriarch. Wait, wait, wait.
Esther, can you tell us about
knocking on Steve Jobs door
and asking for computers?
- Oh, I did knock. He
came over to my class.
I said I need some computers.
He's like, if you don't tell anybody
where you got them, I'll give you some.
- Well, you're telling people now. Okay.